- You know, if you've
been watching my videos,
you've noticed a certain sentence
that I've been saying for years.
I've been saying, small flagship
phones are a rare breed.
And I say that countless
times over the years,
but today, that's no longer true.
That breed is now extinct.
RIP to the small flagship phone.
Okay, we don't even
have to rewind that far
to the days when phones were
all smaller across the board.
But then really quickly, we
shot up to four-inch screens,
then five inch screens were popular,
then six inch flagships were everywhere.
We never quite got to seven
inch phones being mainstream,
but it seems like all of
the biggest flagships now
are teetering right around that.
But the funny part is
smartphone manufacturers
have had the same realization
over and over again,
which is that, oh, smartphone
screens are getting bigger.
And so there's room for the
smaller alternative phone
to slot in underneath that.
So like I just reviewed every
single Samsung Galaxy S ever.
The year that they
started to get really big,
they, of course, also
introduced a Galaxy S Mini.
It's the most Samsung thing ever.
But guess what? Now that's dead.
Same thing from Apple.
We finally got huge iPhones,
and then sure enough, we got
an iPhone Mini for two years,
but now that's dead too.
And this kept happening and
happening all over the place
until there was basically
just one good small flagship phone left.
The Asus Zenfone, the rare breed.
So this thing, the
Zenfone 9 came out in 2022
and was a nearly perfect flagship phone.
Like seriously flagship
specs, incredible performance,
physics defying battery life,
like rock solid cameras.
This phone won my small phone
of the year by a landslide,
even with the few tiny
flaws it had, you know,
the back material being
a little less durable
and it didn't have wireless charging.
So then in 2023, they
came out with a sequel,
the Zenfone 10.
And that took a good thing
and basically perfected it.
They fixed the back material,
they gave it wireless
charging, they upgraded it
to the latest flagship chips.
They didn't lose anything.
Nothing went wrong.
It was just this singular,
excellent flagship phone
with a less than six inch screen in 2023.
So now it's 2024,
and the new Zenfone is a
gigantic 6.8 inch ultra phone.
Now, honestly, we probably
should have seen this coming, right?
When has a small flagship ever lasted
more than a year or two, right?
But it just, I don't know,
it hits a little harder
when this was the last small one.
Like here's something
to think about, right?
I think Apple is, you could
argue, one of the best
supply chain companies
in the world, right?
That's how they built their business.
That's how Tim Cook took the
stock price from here to here.
That's what they do. Tim
Cook is the supply chain guy.
So every time they come
out with a new product
or a range of products,
they have to do the supply chain thing
and figure out exactly how
many they need to produce.
So they have these complex studies
and they're ways of estimating
how many they think will be
sold of every single SKU.
And then that's how
many they need to make.
Not too many, just the perfect amount,
perfect inventory management.
That's the supply chain thing.
That's Tim Cook's thing.
So in 2020, for the first
time, Apple decided to release
a new lineup of four new iPhones.
It was iPhone 12, iPhone
12 Pro, the 12 Pro Max,
and the 12 Mini.
Of course, the 12 and the
12 Pro are the same size,
right in the middle, this
nice little sweet spot
of the lineup, and the
12 Pro Max just being
this absolute maxed out,
biggest screen, biggest price.
But then the cheapest
most pocketable new iPhone
in the lineup is this cute
new little Mini phone.
Now, Apple, Tim Cook, the all
the supply chain knowledge
and the studies they've put in,
they already know small phones
don't sell particularly well.
So they make all of their changes
and line up how many of each
they're going to produce.
And then they send it, they
send it all into production.
And you know, reviews,
honestly, for the most part,
were super positive across the board.
People love the Mini phone.
Yes, the battery life is
weaker on the smaller phone,
but to put a flagship
shape and a flagship chip
and a flagship camera in a Mini phone,
it is just such a rare thing.
So it was extremely well received.
Tech reviewers love it.
Real users are loving it.
YouTube videos are loving on the thing.
And the Mini iPhone still
sold dramatically less
than what Apple had prepared for it to.
There are some surveys that
have the Mini iPhone at like 5%
of the total sales of the
entire new iPhone 12 lineup,
sometimes even less.
I mean, it was really, really unpopular
in the grand scheme of things
to actually buy an iPhone 12 Mini.
So suddenly it went from being
the darling of the lineup
to the least successful
new iPhone of all time.
And the headlines were all over this
and sort of wondering if they
would even try this again.
And they did for one more year,
they did an iPhone 13 Mini.
It did even worse than the 12 Mini.
And then it was quietly discontinued.
And guess what was in its place?
A brand new plus sized
iPhone. Because of course.
So the moral of the story is
the Mini iPhone experiment
reinforced what we already
knew, which is not enough people
actually buy small phones
to be worth it for a company
even of Apple size, to
put in all the research
and development to keep
making these things.
Like some people think,
oh, this thing is
getting positive reviews,
so it must be a success.
Not always true.
And also the counter, if things
are getting negative reviews
from YouTubers, that must be why it died.
Also, not always true.
So now here we go with the Zenfone.
Now, here's the thing, not to
discount the Zenfone 11 ultra,
it's actually a really good phone.
In fact, it's a perfectly
fine, large flagship phone.
It brings all the good
things about Zenfone 10
to a bigger scale, bigger
battery, awesome battery life.
The latest chips and specs,
again, lightweight software
and smooth performance,
rock solid cameras.
It actually added a
third telephoto camera.
So it's all here.
It just loses the biggest thing,
or I guess the smallest thing
that really made it different.
Just the fact that it was actually small
and reachable from corner to corner
and didn't require huge pockets
or huge hands to comfortably dil it.
All of that is gone.
And now it's just like a ROG
phone minus the gamer stuff.
Actually, seriously, that's
basically what it is.
This is the new Zenfone
next to the new ROG phone.
If you take away the screen on the back,
the 165 hertz display, the side USBC port,
the shoulder triggers,
honestly, it's basically the same phone.
So this Zenfone just
feels like it's blending
into the sea of other giant phones.
If I was guessing,
Zenfone 9 and Zenfone 10,
despite how much we loved
them, didn't sell very well.
And so they moved on,
kind of the same way,
that iPhone 12 Mini and 13 Mini
didn't sell particularly well.
The last part of that equation,
the fun fact is, even today,
the most popular new iPhone
is still the Pro and Pro Max,
the super high end biggest phone.
And so what did Asus do?
They made a super high-end big phone.
Now, to be perfectly super clear,
Asus technically hasn't confirmed
that they're not going to
make a regular Zenfone 11,
but the body language suggests
that this is the only one.
They just sort rename it the way Apple
just stopped making the Mini
and started making a Plus.
We just assume the Mini's gone.
So there's no solution to this.
It's right in line with the
enthusiast phone dilemma.
Whenever a phone manufacturer comes along
and starts making an enthusiast phone,
it gathers a really, really hot audience
for that specific device, but it's small,
and so when they end
up trying to branch out
and make it more successful,
they lose the core fans.
And I don't know if this Zenfone's
gonna lose the core fans,
but people who liked it for being small
certainly aren't gonna
like this one anymore.
And this even applies
to budget phones too.
You know, small budget
phones are getting bigger.
Pixel 7A is a 6.1 inch phone.
The Nothing Phone 2a that just came out
is literally an ultra sized phone.
And rumors of the next
iPhone SE also point
to that being not small.
So the void is now open.
You know, someone might
come along and make
another small flagship phone
to briefly fill that void,
but don't expect it to last too long.
RIP, the small flagship phone.
(light music)